sale_commission_geo_assign/README.rst, before:

===================================
Sales commissions - Geo assignation
===================================

.. 
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
   !! This file is generated by oca-gen-addon-readme !!
   !! changes will be overwritten.                   !!
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
   !! source digest: sha256:623479339f393fabe54e41c2a8c0d341b3a4c370c58a2828ea0190fd97076ad3
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

.. |badge1| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/maturity-Production%2FStable-green.png
    :target: https://odoo-community.org/page/development-status
    :alt: Production/Stable
.. |badge2| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/licence-AGPL--3-blue.png
    :target: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0-standalone.html
    :alt: License: AGPL-3
.. |badge3| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/github-OCA%2Fcommission-lightgray.png?logo=github
    :target: https://github.com/OCA/commission/tree/14.0/sale_commission_geo_assign
    :alt: OCA/commission
.. |badge4| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/weblate-Translate%20me-F47D42.png
    :target: https://translation.odoo-community.org/projects/commission-14-0/commission-14-0-sale_commission_geo_assign
    :alt: Translate me on Weblate
.. |badge5| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/runboat-Try%20me-875A7B.png
    :target: https://runboat.odoo-community.org/builds?repo=OCA/commission&target_branch=14.0
    :alt: Try me on Runboat

|badge1| |badge2| |badge3| |badge4| |badge5|

Configure sales agents assigning them to a specific geographical area.

Then, automatically assign agents to customers, according to their geographical area.

A "Do not allow update with Geo Assign" setting can be activated in partner to prevent server action from editing set agents.

**Table of contents**

.. contents::
   :local:

Configuration
=============

Go to

Sales > Commissions Management > Agents

For every agent, you can set Countries, States or ZIP range

Usage
=====

Go to Sales > Agents > open a record: in tab "Agent information", set geographic criteria.

When using server action, this agent will be assigned to customers whose address match the set criteria.

To assign agents, go to:

Sales > Customers

Select the customers you want to assign agents to and click

Action > Add agents with geo assign

- Activating flag "Replace existing agents" will remove agents set in partner and replace them according to geographic criteria.

- Activating flag "Do not add new agents if agents are already assigned" will prevent assignation if agents are already set in partner.

- Deactivating both flags will simply add agents to existing ones in partner according to geographic criteria.

Bug Tracker
===========

Bugs are tracked on `GitHub Issues <https://github.com/OCA/commission/issues>`_.
In case of trouble, please check there if your issue has already been reported.
If you spotted it first, help us to smash it by providing a detailed and welcomed
`feedback <https://github.com/OCA/commission/issues/new?body=module:%20sale_commission_geo_assign%0Aversion:%2014.0%0A%0A**Steps%20to%20reproduce**%0A-%20...%0A%0A**Current%20behavior**%0A%0A**Expected%20behavior**>`_.

Do not contact contributors directly about support or help with technical issues.

Credits
=======

Authors
~~~~~~~

* Agile Business Group

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* iwkse <https://ooops404.com>
* PyTech SRL <info@pytech.it>

Maintainers
~~~~~~~~~~~

This module is maintained by the OCA.

.. image:: https://odoo-community.org/logo.png
   :alt: Odoo Community Association
   :target: https://odoo-community.org

OCA, or the Odoo Community Association, is a nonprofit organization whose
mission is to support the collaborative development of Odoo features and
promote its widespread use.

.. |maintainer-eLBati| image:: https://github.com/eLBati.png?size=40px
    :target: https://github.com/eLBati
    :alt: eLBati

Current `maintainer <https://odoo-community.org/page/maintainer-role>`__:

|maintainer-eLBati| 

This module is part of the `OCA/commission <https://github.com/OCA/commission/tree/14.0/sale_commission_geo_assign>`_ project on GitHub.

You are welcome to contribute. To learn how please visit https://odoo-community.org/page/Contribute.

Commit message:

[IMP]sale_commission_geo_assign: add required group to docs

sale_commission_geo_assign/README.rst, after:

===================================
Sales commissions - Geo assignation
===================================

.. 
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
   !! This file is generated by oca-gen-addon-readme !!
   !! changes will be overwritten.                   !!
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
   !! source digest: sha256:623479339f393fabe54e41c2a8c0d341b3a4c370c58a2828ea0190fd97076ad3
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

.. |badge1| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/maturity-Production%2FStable-green.png
    :target: https://odoo-community.org/page/development-status
    :alt: Production/Stable
.. |badge2| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/licence-AGPL--3-blue.png
    :target: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0-standalone.html
    :alt: License: AGPL-3
.. |badge3| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/github-OCA%2Fcommission-lightgray.png?logo=github
    :target: https://github.com/OCA/commission/tree/14.0/sale_commission_geo_assign
    :alt: OCA/commission
.. |badge4| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/weblate-Translate%20me-F47D42.png
    :target: https://translation.odoo-community.org/projects/commission-14-0/commission-14-0-sale_commission_geo_assign
    :alt: Translate me on Weblate
.. |badge5| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/runboat-Try%20me-875A7B.png
    :target: https://runboat.odoo-community.org/builds?repo=OCA/commission&target_branch=14.0
    :alt: Try me on Runboat

|badge1| |badge2| |badge3| |badge4| |badge5|

Configure sales agents assigning them to a specific geographical area.

Then, automatically assign agents to customers, according to their geographical area.

A "Do not allow update with Geo Assign" setting can be activated in partner to prevent server action from editing set agents.

**Table of contents**

.. contents::
   :local:

Configuration
=============

Go to

Sales > Commissions Management > Agents

A user must be in the 'Contact Creation' group in order to access this action

For every agent, you can set Countries, States or ZIP range

Usage
=====

Go to Sales > Agents > open a record: in tab "Agent information", set geographic criteria.

When using server action, this agent will be assigned to customers whose address match the set criteria.

To assign agents, go to:

Sales > Customers

Select the customers you want to assign agents to and click

Action > Add agents with geo assign

- Activating flag "Replace existing agents" will remove agents set in partner and replace them according to geographic criteria.

- Activating flag "Do not add new agents if agents are already assigned" will prevent assignation if agents are already set in partner.

- Deactivating both flags will simply add agents to existing ones in partner according to geographic criteria.

Bug Tracker
===========

Bugs are tracked on `GitHub Issues <https://github.com/OCA/commission/issues>`_.
In case of trouble, please check there if your issue has already been reported.
If you spotted it first, help us to smash it by providing a detailed and welcomed
`feedback <https://github.com/OCA/commission/issues/new?body=module:%20sale_commission_geo_assign%0Aversion:%2014.0%0A%0A**Steps%20to%20reproduce**%0A-%20...%0A%0A**Current%20behavior**%0A%0A**Expected%20behavior**>`_.

Do not contact contributors directly about support or help with technical issues.

Credits
=======

Authors
~~~~~~~

* Agile Business Group

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* iwkse <https://ooops404.com>
* PyTech SRL <info@pytech.it>

Maintainers
~~~~~~~~~~~

This module is maintained by the OCA.

.. image:: https://odoo-community.org/logo.png
   :alt: Odoo Community Association
   :target: https://odoo-community.org

OCA, or the Odoo Community Association, is a nonprofit organization whose
mission is to support the collaborative development of Odoo features and
promote its widespread use.

.. |maintainer-eLBati| image:: https://github.com/eLBati.png?size=40px
    :target: https://github.com/eLBati
    :alt: eLBati

Current `maintainer <https://odoo-community.org/page/maintainer-role>`__:

|maintainer-eLBati| 

This module is part of the `OCA/commission <https://github.com/OCA/commission/tree/14.0/sale_commission_geo_assign>`_ project on GitHub.

You are welcome to contribute. To learn how please visit https://odoo-community.org/page/Contribute.
