account_commission/README.rst, before:

===================
Account commissions
===================

.. 
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
   !! This file is generated by oca-gen-addon-readme !!
   !! changes will be overwritten.                   !!
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
   !! source digest: sha256:68f1a6945b770a30a14a0891c944d8d205676022c1fe5ff33968ab47fa9a2b22
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

.. |badge1| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/maturity-Beta-yellow.png
    :target: https://odoo-community.org/page/development-status
    :alt: Beta
.. |badge2| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/licence-AGPL--3-blue.png
    :target: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0-standalone.html
    :alt: License: AGPL-3
.. |badge3| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/github-OCA%2Fcommission-lightgray.png?logo=github
    :target: https://github.com/OCA/commission/tree/15.0/account_commission
    :alt: OCA/commission
.. |badge4| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/weblate-Translate%20me-F47D42.png
    :target: https://translation.odoo-community.org/projects/commission-15-0/commission-15-0-account_commission
    :alt: Translate me on Weblate
.. |badge5| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/runboat-Try%20me-875A7B.png
    :target: https://runboat.odoo-community.org/builds?repo=OCA/commission&target_branch=15.0
    :alt: Try me on Runboat

|badge1| |badge2| |badge3| |badge4| |badge5|

This module adds the function to calculate commissions in invoices (account moves).

It also allows to create vendor bills from settlements for external agents.

This module depends on the commission module.

**Table of contents**

.. contents::
   :local:

Configuration
=============

For selecting invoice status in commissions:

#. Edit or create a new record to select the invoice status for settling the commissions.

   * **Invoice Based**: Commissions are settled when the invoice is issued.
   * **Payment Based**: Commissions are settled when the invoice is paid.

Usage
=====

For adding commissions on invoices:

#. Go to *Invoicing > Customers > Invoices*.
#. Edit or create a new record.
#. When you have selected a partner, each new invoice line you add will have
   the agents and commissions set at customer level.
#. You can add, modify or delete these agents discretely clicking on the
   icon with several persons represented, next to the "Commission" field in the
   list. This icon will be available only if the line hasn't been invoiced yet.
#. If you have configured your system for editing lines in a popup window,
   agents will appear also in this window.
#. The agents icon will be in this ocassion visible when the line hasn't been
   settled.
#. You have a button "Regenerate agents" on the bottom of the page
   "Invoice Lines" for forcing a recompute of all agents from the partner setup.
   This is needed for example when you have changed the partner on the
   invoice having already inserted lines.

For invoicing the settlements (only for external agents):

#. Go to *Invoicing > Commissions > Create Commission Invoices*.
#. On the window that appears, you can select following data:

   * Product. It should be a service product for being coherent.
   * Journal: To be selected between existing purchase journals.
   * Date: If you want to choose a specific invoice date. You can leave it
     blank if you prefer.
   * Settlements: For selecting specific settlements to invoice. You can leave
     it blank as well for invoicing all the pending settlements.

If you want to invoice a/some specific settlement/s:

#. Navigate to *Invoicing > Commissions > Invoices Settlements*.
#. Select it/them on the list.
#. Click on *Action > Create Commission Invoices*.
#. You can as well enter in one settlement, and click on the "Make invoice"
   button.

Bug Tracker
===========

Bugs are tracked on `GitHub Issues <https://github.com/OCA/commission/issues>`_.
In case of trouble, please check there if your issue has already been reported.
If you spotted it first, help us to smash it by providing a detailed and welcomed
`feedback <https://github.com/OCA/commission/issues/new?body=module:%20account_commission%0Aversion:%2015.0%0A%0A**Steps%20to%20reproduce**%0A-%20...%0A%0A**Current%20behavior**%0A%0A**Expected%20behavior**>`_.

Do not contact contributors directly about support or help with technical issues.

Credits
=======

Authors
~~~~~~~

* Tecnativa

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Pexego.
* Davide Corio <davide.corio@domsense.com>
* Joao Alfredo Gama Batista <joao.gama@savoirfairelinux.com>
* Sandy Carter <sandy.carter@savoirfairelinux.com>
* Giorgio Borelli <giorgio.borelli@abstract.it>
* Daniel Campos <danielcampos@avanzosc.es>
* Oihane Crucelaegui <oihanecruce@gmail.com>
* Nicola Malcontenti <nicola.malcontenti@agilebg.com>
* Aitor Bouzas <aitor.bouzas@adaptivecity.com>
* Alexei Rivera <arivera@archeti.com>

* `Tecnativa <https://www.tecnativa.com>`__:

  * Pedro M. Baeza
  * Manuel Calero

* `Quartile <https://www.quartile.co>`__:

  * Aung Ko Ko Lin
  * Yoshi Tashiro

Maintainers
~~~~~~~~~~~

This module is maintained by the OCA.

.. image:: https://odoo-community.org/logo.png
   :alt: Odoo Community Association
   :target: https://odoo-community.org

OCA, or the Odoo Community Association, is a nonprofit organization whose
mission is to support the collaborative development of Odoo features and
promote its widespread use.

.. |maintainer-pedrobaeza| image:: https://github.com/pedrobaeza.png?size=40px
    :target: https://github.com/pedrobaeza
    :alt: pedrobaeza

Current `maintainer <https://odoo-community.org/page/maintainer-role>`__:

|maintainer-pedrobaeza| 

This module is part of the `OCA/commission <https://github.com/OCA/commission/tree/15.0/account_commission>`_ project on GitHub.

You are welcome to contribute. To learn how please visit https://odoo-community.org/page/Contribute.

Commit message:

[15.0][FIX]account_commission: Settlement on reversed moves

account_commission/README.rst, after:

===================
Account commissions
===================

.. 
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
   !! This file is generated by oca-gen-addon-readme !!
   !! changes will be overwritten.                   !!
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
   !! source digest: sha256:2870408c1c2aa0c64c0f8c4660ea6b857375d8fd7e87970232b90368b913305c
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

.. |badge1| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/maturity-Beta-yellow.png
    :target: https://odoo-community.org/page/development-status
    :alt: Beta
.. |badge2| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/licence-AGPL--3-blue.png
    :target: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0-standalone.html
    :alt: License: AGPL-3
.. |badge3| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/github-OCA%2Fcommission-lightgray.png?logo=github
    :target: https://github.com/OCA/commission/tree/15.0/account_commission
    :alt: OCA/commission
.. |badge4| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/weblate-Translate%20me-F47D42.png
    :target: https://translation.odoo-community.org/projects/commission-15-0/commission-15-0-account_commission
    :alt: Translate me on Weblate
.. |badge5| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/runboat-Try%20me-875A7B.png
    :target: https://runboat.odoo-community.org/builds?repo=OCA/commission&target_branch=15.0
    :alt: Try me on Runboat

|badge1| |badge2| |badge3| |badge4| |badge5|

This module adds the function to calculate commissions in invoices (account moves).

It also allows to create vendor bills from settlements for external agents.

This module depends on the commission module.

**Table of contents**

.. contents::
   :local:

Configuration
=============

For selecting invoice status in commissions:

#. Edit or create a new record to select the invoice status for settling the commissions.

   * **Invoice Based**: Commissions are settled when the invoice is issued.
   * **Payment Based**: Commissions are settled when the invoice is paid or refunded.
     Note that when refunding an invoice, the corresponding reversed commission will
     be settled as well, resulting in a 0 net commission between both operations.

Usage
=====

For adding commissions on invoices:

#. Go to *Invoicing > Customers > Invoices*.
#. Edit or create a new record.
#. When you have selected a partner, each new invoice line you add will have
   the agents and commissions set at customer level.
#. You can add, modify or delete these agents discretely clicking on the
   icon with several persons represented, next to the "Commission" field in the
   list. This icon will be available only if the line hasn't been invoiced yet.
#. If you have configured your system for editing lines in a popup window,
   agents will appear also in this window.
#. The agents icon will be in this ocassion visible when the line hasn't been
   settled.
#. You have a button "Regenerate agents" on the bottom of the page
   "Invoice Lines" for forcing a recompute of all agents from the partner setup.
   This is needed for example when you have changed the partner on the
   invoice having already inserted lines.

For invoicing the settlements (only for external agents):

#. Go to *Invoicing > Commissions > Create Commission Invoices*.
#. On the window that appears, you can select following data:

   * Product. It should be a service product for being coherent.
   * Journal: To be selected between existing purchase journals.
   * Date: If you want to choose a specific invoice date. You can leave it
     blank if you prefer.
   * Settlements: For selecting specific settlements to invoice. You can leave
     it blank as well for invoicing all the pending settlements.

If you want to invoice a/some specific settlement/s:

#. Navigate to *Invoicing > Commissions > Invoices Settlements*.
#. Select it/them on the list.
#. Click on *Action > Create Commission Invoices*.
#. You can as well enter in one settlement, and click on the "Make invoice"
   button.

Bug Tracker
===========

Bugs are tracked on `GitHub Issues <https://github.com/OCA/commission/issues>`_.
In case of trouble, please check there if your issue has already been reported.
If you spotted it first, help us to smash it by providing a detailed and welcomed
`feedback <https://github.com/OCA/commission/issues/new?body=module:%20account_commission%0Aversion:%2015.0%0A%0A**Steps%20to%20reproduce**%0A-%20...%0A%0A**Current%20behavior**%0A%0A**Expected%20behavior**>`_.

Do not contact contributors directly about support or help with technical issues.

Credits
=======

Authors
~~~~~~~

* Tecnativa

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Pexego.
* Davide Corio <davide.corio@domsense.com>
* Joao Alfredo Gama Batista <joao.gama@savoirfairelinux.com>
* Sandy Carter <sandy.carter@savoirfairelinux.com>
* Giorgio Borelli <giorgio.borelli@abstract.it>
* Daniel Campos <danielcampos@avanzosc.es>
* Oihane Crucelaegui <oihanecruce@gmail.com>
* Nicola Malcontenti <nicola.malcontenti@agilebg.com>
* Aitor Bouzas <aitor.bouzas@adaptivecity.com>
* Alexei Rivera <arivera@archeti.com>

* `Tecnativa <https://www.tecnativa.com>`__:

  * Pedro M. Baeza
  * Manuel Calero

* `Quartile <https://www.quartile.co>`__:

  * Aung Ko Ko Lin
  * Yoshi Tashiro

Maintainers
~~~~~~~~~~~

This module is maintained by the OCA.

.. image:: https://odoo-community.org/logo.png
   :alt: Odoo Community Association
   :target: https://odoo-community.org

OCA, or the Odoo Community Association, is a nonprofit organization whose
mission is to support the collaborative development of Odoo features and
promote its widespread use.

.. |maintainer-pedrobaeza| image:: https://github.com/pedrobaeza.png?size=40px
    :target: https://github.com/pedrobaeza
    :alt: pedrobaeza

Current `maintainer <https://odoo-community.org/page/maintainer-role>`__:

|maintainer-pedrobaeza| 

This module is part of the `OCA/commission <https://github.com/OCA/commission/tree/15.0/account_commission>`_ project on GitHub.

You are welcome to contribute. To learn how please visit https://odoo-community.org/page/Contribute.
