sale_commission_check_deposit/README.rst, before:

==============================
Sales commission check deposit
==============================

.. 
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
   !! This file is generated by oca-gen-addon-readme !!
   !! changes will be overwritten.                   !!
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
   !! source digest: sha256:ba0fd3fb9a685120806a47d8a736cf09ff9221c5c2dfb2735cbbbaacb249d517
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

.. |badge1| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/maturity-Beta-yellow.png
    :target: https://odoo-community.org/page/development-status
    :alt: Beta
.. |badge2| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/licence-AGPL--3-blue.png
    :target: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0-standalone.html
    :alt: License: AGPL-3
.. |badge3| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/github-OCA%2Fcommission-lightgray.png?logo=github
    :target: https://github.com/OCA/commission/tree/14.0/sale_commission_check_deposit
    :alt: OCA/commission
.. |badge4| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/weblate-Translate%20me-F47D42.png
    :target: https://translation.odoo-community.org/projects/commission-14-0/commission-14-0-sale_commission_check_deposit
    :alt: Translate me on Weblate
.. |badge5| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/runboat-Try%20me-875A7B.png
    :target: https://runboat.odoo-community.org/builds?repo=OCA/commission&target_branch=14.0
    :alt: Try me on Runboat

|badge1| |badge2| |badge3| |badge4| |badge5|

The module allows you to integrate check deposit with agent commissions.

When generating agent commissions, an invoice with checks payment
will be taken into consideration only after the number of days set in
the "Safety Days" field in journal configuration from due date set in
check payment.

**Table of contents**

.. contents::
   :local:

Usage
=====

For setting journal as Check journal with safety days:

#. Go to *Journal*.
#. Check "Is check Journal" and add safety days.

For pay and register a checks deposit:

#. Create an invoice and using Checks to pay it.
#. Add a new checks deposit adding that payment.
#. Validate checks deposit.

For settling the commissions to agents:

#. Go to *Sales > Commissions Management > Settle commissions*.
#. On the window that appears, you should select the date up to which you
   want to create commissions. It should be at least one day after the last
   period date. For example, if you settlements are monthly, you have to put
   at least the first day of the following month.
#. You can settle only certain agents if you select them on the "Agents"
   section. Leave it empty for settling all.
#. Click on "Make settlements" button.
#. If safety days have passed from due date set in checks payment commission will be
    settled properly.

Bug Tracker
===========

Bugs are tracked on `GitHub Issues <https://github.com/OCA/commission/issues>`_.
In case of trouble, please check there if your issue has already been reported.
If you spotted it first, help us to smash it by providing a detailed and welcomed
`feedback <https://github.com/OCA/commission/issues/new?body=module:%20sale_commission_check_deposit%0Aversion:%2014.0%0A%0A**Steps%20to%20reproduce**%0A-%20...%0A%0A**Current%20behavior**%0A%0A**Expected%20behavior**>`_.

Do not contact contributors directly about support or help with technical issues.

Credits
=======

Authors
~~~~~~~

* Nextev Srl

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Nextev Srl

Maintainers
~~~~~~~~~~~

This module is maintained by the OCA.

.. image:: https://odoo-community.org/logo.png
   :alt: Odoo Community Association
   :target: https://odoo-community.org

OCA, or the Odoo Community Association, is a nonprofit organization whose
mission is to support the collaborative development of Odoo features and
promote its widespread use.

.. |maintainer-aleuffre| image:: https://github.com/aleuffre.png?size=40px
    :target: https://github.com/aleuffre
    :alt: aleuffre
.. |maintainer-renda-dev| image:: https://github.com/renda-dev.png?size=40px
    :target: https://github.com/renda-dev
    :alt: renda-dev
.. |maintainer-PicchiSeba| image:: https://github.com/PicchiSeba.png?size=40px
    :target: https://github.com/PicchiSeba
    :alt: PicchiSeba

Current `maintainers <https://odoo-community.org/page/maintainer-role>`__:

|maintainer-aleuffre| |maintainer-renda-dev| |maintainer-PicchiSeba| 

This module is part of the `OCA/commission <https://github.com/OCA/commission/tree/14.0/sale_commission_check_deposit>`_ project on GitHub.

You are welcome to contribute. To learn how please visit https://odoo-community.org/page/Contribute.

Commit message:

[FIX] sale_commission_check_deposit: do not filter non deposited checks

sale_commission_check_deposit/README.rst, after:

==============================
Sales commission check deposit
==============================

.. 
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
   !! This file is generated by oca-gen-addon-readme !!
   !! changes will be overwritten.                   !!
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
   !! source digest: sha256:ba0fd3fb9a685120806a47d8a736cf09ff9221c5c2dfb2735cbbbaacb249d517
   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

.. |badge1| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/maturity-Beta-yellow.png
    :target: https://odoo-community.org/page/development-status
    :alt: Beta
.. |badge2| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/licence-AGPL--3-blue.png
    :target: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0-standalone.html
    :alt: License: AGPL-3
.. |badge3| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/github-OCA%2Fcommission-lightgray.png?logo=github
    :target: https://github.com/OCA/commission/tree/14.0/sale_commission_check_deposit
    :alt: OCA/commission
.. |badge4| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/weblate-Translate%20me-F47D42.png
    :target: https://translation.odoo-community.org/projects/commission-14-0/commission-14-0-sale_commission_check_deposit
    :alt: Translate me on Weblate
.. |badge5| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/runboat-Try%20me-875A7B.png
    :target: https://runboat.odoo-community.org/builds?repo=OCA/commission&target_branch=14.0
    :alt: Try me on Runboat

|badge1| |badge2| |badge3| |badge4| |badge5|

The module allows you to integrate check deposit with agent commissions.

When generating agent settlements, select a
payment date until which commissions should be settled.

Invoices with checks payment will be taken
into consideration only if the number of
days set in the "Safety days for commission"
field in journal configuration from due date
set in check payment have passed from settlement payment date.

Eg:

- Invoice 0001 is paid with check
- Check due date: January 1st
- "Safety days for commission" set in check journal: 10
- In settlement wizard:
    - Settle commissions until payment date: January 5th => commission is not settled for check
    - Settle commissions until payment date: January 15th => commission is settled for check

**Table of contents**

.. contents::
   :local:

Usage
=====

For setting journal as Check journal with safety days:

#. Go to *Journal*.
#. Check "Is check Journal" and add safety days.

For pay and register a checks deposit:

#. Create an invoice and using Checks to pay it.
#. Add a new checks deposit adding that payment.

For settling the commissions to agents:

#. Go to *Sales > Commissions Management > Settle commissions*.
#. On the window that appears, you should select the date up to which you
   want to create commissions. It should be at least one day after the last
   period date. For example, if you settlements are monthly, you have to put
   at least the first day of the following month.
#. You can settle only certain agents if you select them on the "Agents"
   section. Leave it empty for settling all.
#. Click on "Make settlements" button.
#. If safety days have passed between settlement payment date and check due date,
   commission will be settled properly.

Bug Tracker
===========

Bugs are tracked on `GitHub Issues <https://github.com/OCA/commission/issues>`_.
In case of trouble, please check there if your issue has already been reported.
If you spotted it first, help us to smash it by providing a detailed and welcomed
`feedback <https://github.com/OCA/commission/issues/new?body=module:%20sale_commission_check_deposit%0Aversion:%2014.0%0A%0A**Steps%20to%20reproduce**%0A-%20...%0A%0A**Current%20behavior**%0A%0A**Expected%20behavior**>`_.

Do not contact contributors directly about support or help with technical issues.

Credits
=======

Authors
~~~~~~~

* Nextev Srl

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Nextev Srl

Maintainers
~~~~~~~~~~~

This module is maintained by the OCA.

.. image:: https://odoo-community.org/logo.png
   :alt: Odoo Community Association
   :target: https://odoo-community.org

OCA, or the Odoo Community Association, is a nonprofit organization whose
mission is to support the collaborative development of Odoo features and
promote its widespread use.

.. |maintainer-aleuffre| image:: https://github.com/aleuffre.png?size=40px
    :target: https://github.com/aleuffre
    :alt: aleuffre
.. |maintainer-renda-dev| image:: https://github.com/renda-dev.png?size=40px
    :target: https://github.com/renda-dev
    :alt: renda-dev
.. |maintainer-PicchiSeba| image:: https://github.com/PicchiSeba.png?size=40px
    :target: https://github.com/PicchiSeba
    :alt: PicchiSeba

Current `maintainers <https://odoo-community.org/page/maintainer-role>`__:

|maintainer-aleuffre| |maintainer-renda-dev| |maintainer-PicchiSeba| 

This module is part of the `OCA/commission <https://github.com/OCA/commission/tree/14.0/sale_commission_check_deposit>`_ project on GitHub.

You are welcome to contribute. To learn how please visit https://odoo-community.org/page/Contribute.
